Do you really know the structure of your OS?



Imagine, you have your house (the OS), and it’s understood that you know all the parts of your house. Why? So that if a thief enters, you can escape! even if the lights are off.

No no, this isn’t about knowing your house, it’s about understanding your Linux, specifically how the Linux filesystem is structured.

This is my day 2 of Linux Journey (File Structure)->
 
But before we even get into that... How does the terminal even understand a command?
-> Whenever you enter a command in the terminal, it scans the system's PATH to look for related executables. If it finds something related (like a binary), it executes it.
--For example, when you type ls, its binary is already installed in a directory like /bin, so it runs instantly. Cool, right?

SOO COMING TO THE MAIN PART
A). root@ubuntu-dev:/# → This is the Linux shell prompt, and it shows who you are, which computer you're on, and where you are in the system.
B). /home → Default location for user home directories.
C). /sbin → System binaries, all the administrative commands are present here, like useradd.
D). /lib → Libraries, used by the Linux kernel to execute system calls or actions.
E). /boot → Contains binaries which help the system load whenever the system is booted again.
F). /bin → Binaries, contains commands used on a regular basis by users, and does not require root permissions.
G). /srv → Server, has all the configurations of the server which you are working on — or maybe other servers.
H). /opt → Where all the 3rd party applications are stored or downloaded.
I). /mnt → Mounts extra volume to the system if necessary. Mostly used by system admins.
J). /var → Variable, used to store log files or files related to 3rd party applications.
K). /data → Contains data which can be shared with others or shareable files in precise.
L). /tmp → Stores temporary files which will be eventually deleted after some time.
M). /root → The root user who has majority of the access and administrative powers.
N). /run → Stores runtime data.
O). /etc → Has all system config files.
P). /media → Mount point for removable media.
